
Nelson Wang EMPLID 23881380
Prof. Steven Remy
HIST 1101
Event Attendance Report: Napoleon and the Cult of Glory - Short Report

The talk was described about Napoleon's bibliography and how Napoleon and fellow conspirators were able to develop a loyal following.  One of the key points of the presentation was how Napoleon played the part of a French hero, and how was he able to achieve such success. Professor Bell describes how the 'strongman' archetype is built by polishing 4 main supporting features: (1) The idea of masculinity, to be an object of sexual envy from men, and the object of sexual attractiveness for women. (2) This notion was supported and idealized for men with military experience, who were good at their craft in combat and were related to the glory and success in warfare. (3) The ability to be a founding father: The idea that they influenced the country's legacy and his paternalistic treatment of its subjects (4) Being someone from among the ordinary people. Power is measured not from being originated from a special blessing from the clergy nor because of a royal bloodline, but because of his merits.

Another Key point was how the Napoleon Propaganda was built. He mentions first, while he had part of his success should be attributed to a successful manipulation of his public image and propaganda. Propaganda wouldn't be sufficient without his actual merit. Part of the propaganda and the emphasis of his attributions gets amplified because of the growing sentiment of French Nationalistic Imperialism, as denoted in our class readings assignments from March 18-22: A World of Empires lecture - Jules Ferry on the Civilizing Mission: "Jules Ferry on French Colonial Expansion, 1884" which denotes the growing sentiment such as the one denoted by the Prime Minister of French, where in his note, he excuses the imperialistic policies taken as "a Duty as men of higher race... to civilize the inferior race.. with sincerity of this superior civilizing duty". Napoleon's genius is further augmented as it aligns with the agenda of Imperialistic France. Napoleon is also at the same time embodiment of the French Revolution, where merit on the battlefield was superior to any royal or clergy sponsorship. Napoleon excelled at his propaganda campaign because he was aligned with the values of the revolution and public sentiment as well as his successful reproduction and distribution of his image in household images and public paintings together with the stories being told about his approachability with his men at warfare and the willingness to "get dirty" compared to those at the nobility. For example, Bell related: how Napoleon was once seen loading and firing his army cannons amid the battlefield, which ended up with his soldiers jokingly referring to him as "The Little Corporal."