

I am in the career of Computer Science. I will start by stating the following. I think AI Will terminate many of the careers we know today. Is true that when compared to the past, people will argue that as its been on the past revolutions, technology created better jobs, than the ones taken. And so people could focus on more managerial high level/creative/management tasks. And a trend has been to therefore tell people to go and specialize in more higher education and focus either on creative or knowledge/strategic jobs instead of manual ones. But the tables seems to be turned now showing signs of AI taking steps into strategic and artistic positions. As everyday we are bombarded with new ai breaking into what before were considered places that were "AI Safe" such as into the music industry[^1] or  writers strike from shows as writers are being fired id droves [^2]. Or how AI Software Engineering environment AI Devin is being developed by gold medal prodigies mathematicians and  top ranked competitive programmers [^5]  to replace software engineers  and were already successful at finishing freelance programming contracts [^3] [^4] . Yes there will be more jobs, but the rate at which this exponentially growing technology grows means that the windows of new jobs will not last enough to make a reasonable careers. For example, I remember some years ago, it was common to hear how government suggestions for blue collar workers which jobs were being automated or outsourced were to "learn programming". But now after just some mere years, 
AI is taking over the programming field and thousands of tech workers seem to be be fired. AI might not be able to completely eliminate a position, but will in my opinion reduce drastically the amount of staff required for a task, reducing the pool of available positions. Even burger flipping jobs are being replaced ^6
I opened my discussion with this before talking about careers aspirations, is important to understand that many careers will likely die after understanding that AI is at the moment the worst version we will ever see. And that it will exponentially get better. I will be making the educated prediction that any job that doesn't require an human legally or constant adapting to a physical situation, such as lawyers  (although many lawyers positions such as document review positions are being automated [^7]) accountants, nurses, teachers (although some schools are being automated by videos and probably eventually by Ai), doctors or police officers are being automated away. New positions will open. True, but barely compared to the jobs being replaced, ever requiring increasing credentials and education, and still in the danger of being replaced by future ai. An example were newly created Data Scientist positions and careers that are also being replaced by ai. [^8]
After reviewing this. I believe that the safest path for one is to work is two options, either pursue a career safe from ai as outlined above, or try to make earnings in a niche by developing your own products. Becoming your own business as from this trend I can see how most office jobs are being at risk, and private companies have less economic incentive to keep you on payroll. In my case, I am currently working as a software engineer. I have seen since the introduction of powerful language models, how my workflow have adapted as well. I am lucky that this paradigm shifting technology were introduced at an early stage of my career as I am lucky that I haven't invested enough in skills that doesn't make sense with todays technology. For example, memorization and deep understanding on a language or framework, as AI is great at memorizing and newer models at real time consulting documentation to relate the context of your syntax with the correct implementation. This is a skill that my senior engineers had to do manually and learn over time, but almost obsolete at todays. Therefore, before the  software engineering advice were to be good at everything but specialize in a framework/language and niche down to outstand. I believe now the correct advice should be to be great at the higher level items such as understanding how to connect systems together, pros and cons of each tools and then specializing on mathematical concepts and algorithmic logic which seems to be one of the items that the statistical model of ai doesn't seem to be great at yet. Also I am trying to learn more general things outside of tech that relate to building a business. For example, how to run marketing, how to find business niches or knowledge exploits for building businesses. how to improve user experience and build better products (better design), which will help me eventually work towards the path of building my own software development business.

I believe the future of AI will probably dislocate many existent jobs and favoring instead business owners. As jobs become ever more unstable to keep or to be automated, while smart business owners can progressively lower costs by outsourcing tasks to ai. Therefore, I am forced to think for my career, how can I maximize ai tools as a future business owner? And what should I do as a current employee on my company while I still have a job? see be more of an advantage those who are seeking to build or manage their own business, and makes augments the skills of a generalizer type of person. For example by understanding the fundamentals of marketing's I can write (as a software engineer) automated marketing pipelines going from product research (summarizers) to custom email writers, or use generative AI to assist designing. At the moment is still in progress but eventually by understanding the basics of law, you can start writing contracts or use ai tools and software to expediate many of the processes you would require hiring a costly lawyer. And as an engineer you can develop at swiftly build things as you can create environments of agents that automate testing, qa, code documentation, prototype development, refactoring, tech consultancy and research and many of the tasks that you would required a team of specialized engineers to have before.

---

I am in the field of Computer Science, and I'll begin by stating the following: I believe AI will terminate many of the careers we know today. It's true that, compared to the past, people will argue that, as with past revolutions, technology created better jobs than the ones taken. People could focus on more managerial, high-level creative, or management tasks. A trend has been to tell people to specialize in higher education and focus on creative or knowledge/strategic jobs instead of manual ones. However, the tables seem to be turning now, showing signs of AI taking steps into strategic and artistic positions. Every day, we are bombarded with news of AI breaking into what were once considered "AI Safe" places, such as the music industry[^1], or writers being replaced in shows[^2]. AI software engineering environments like AI Devin are being developed by gold medal prodigy mathematicians and top-ranked competitive programmers[^5] to replace software engineers and have already been successful at finishing freelance programming contracts[^3][^4]. Yes, there will be more jobs, but the exponentially growing technology means that the windows for new jobs will not last long enough to build reasonable careers.

For example, some years ago, it was common to hear government suggestions for blue-collar workers, whose jobs were being automated or outsourced, to "learn programming." But now, after just a few years, AI is taking over the programming field, and thousands of tech workers seem to be getting fired. AI might not completely eliminate a position, but it will, in my opinion, drastically reduce the number of staff required for a task, shrinking the pool of available positions. Even burger flipping jobs are being replaced[^6].

I open my discussion with this because, before this technological revolution should put one to reconsider if a career will continue to exists in some years, it's important to understand that many careers will likely vanish after realizing that AI, at the moment, is the worst version we will ever see, and it will only exponentially get better at automating tasks. I am predicting that any job that doesn't require legally to be by humans that pass some sort of board certification barrier is in danger.  Situations protected are such as lawyers (although many lawyer positions, such as document review, are being automated[^7]), accountants, nurses, teachers (although some schools are being automated by videos and probably eventually by AI), doctors, or police officer. New positions will emerge, but they will barely compare to the jobs being replaced, requiring increasingly higher credentials and education, and still in danger of being replaced by future AI. For example, just some years past created Data Scientist positions and careers are also being replaced by AI[^8].

It's apparent that most office jobs are at risk, and private companies have less economic incentive to keep you on payroll. In my case, I am currently working as a software engineer. Since the introduction of powerful language models, I've seen how my workflow has adapted. I'm fortunate that this paradigm-shifting technology was introduced early in my career, and that I haven't invested heavily in skills that are outdated with today's technology. For example, memorization and deep understanding of a language or framework, as AI is adept at memorizing and newer models can consult documentation in real-time to relate the context of your syntax with the correct implementation. This is a skill that my senior engineers had to learn by repeating what they do daily for years but is almost obsolete today. Therefore, whereas previous software engineering advice was to be good at everything but specialize in a framework/language and niche down to stand out, I believe the correct advice now is to excel at higher-level items such as understanding how to connect systems, pros and cons of each tool, and then specialize in mathematical and algorithmic advanced concepts, which AI models struggle with. I'm also trying to learn more general things outside of tech related to building a business, such as marketing, finding business niches, exploiting knowledge for building businesses, improving user experience, and building better products (better design), which will eventually help me work towards building my own software development business.

I believe the future of AI will probably displace many existing jobs and favor business owners. As jobs become increasingly unstable or automated, smart business owners can progressively lower costs and developed almost automated money making systems by exploring niches and building their best products/services by outsourcing tasks to AI to stay competitive. Therefore, I'm forced to think about my career: What are the processes that AI will likely not be good at? And what should I do/learn as a current employee to complement those weaknesses? It seems advantageous for those who are seeking to build or manage their own business, augmenting the skills of a generalist. For example, by just understanding the fundamentals of marketing, I can write automated marketing pipelines as a software engineer, going from product research (summarizers) to custom email writers, or use generative AI to assist in designing concepts that automatically are adapted through users interaction feedback. Although it's still in progress, by understanding the basics of law, one can start use AI tools to navigate oneself through professional  contracts or use AI tools and software to expedite many processes and fight cases that would otherwise require hiring a costly lawyer. Learn the fundamentals of customer support and you will be able to create better sales and bots[^9] and customer support that use available documentation. And as a single engineer, I can swiftly build things by creating environments of agents that automate testing, QA, code documentation, prototype development, refactoring, tech consultancy, research, and many tasks that previously required a team of specialized engineers.


[^1] AI Impact is transforming: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E1wDOAmYHSs&ab_channel=CNBCTelevision
[^2]  How AI Took Center Stage in the Hollywood Writers Strike.
[^3]  AI just officially took our jobs… I hate you Devin  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AgyJv2Qelwk&ab_channel=Fireship
[^4] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjHtjT7GO1c&ab_channel=Cognition
[^5] Creators of Devin AI are genius competitive programmers?https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5eeVBd2qlWE&ab_channel=NeetCodeIO
[^6]  Automated AI restaurant opens in California https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zyUekx9NZ18&ab_channel=CBSEveningNews
[^7] https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/10/technology/ai-is-coming-for-lawyers-again.html
[^8] Which jobs will survive AI? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x2x8Ww7Es4s&ab_channel=TinaHuang
[^9] # Building an AI Sales Bot to Call Leads For Me LIVE

"Better technology makes more better jobs for horses." Youtuber GCP writes, 


