Nelson Wang EMPLID 23881380
Prof. Steven Remy
HIST 1101
Event Attendance Report: Napoleon and the Cult of Glory - Short Report

In this report, I will write a summary of what I have learned and together connected with the course theme combine it with both knowledge from my experiences to conclude how the theory can be further inspected to create an actionable value in one personal life. The talk was given by David Bell, professor of History at Princeton on "Napoleon and the Cult of Glory."

The talk was about Napoleon's bibliography and how Napoleon and their fellow conspirators were able to develop a loyal following.  One of the key points of the presentation was how Napoleon played the part of a French hero, and how was he able to achieve such success. Professor Bell describes how the 'strongman' archetype is built by polishing 4 main supporting features: (1) The idea of masculinity, to be an object of sexual envy from men, and the object of sexual attractiveness for women. (2) This notion was supported and idealized for men with military experience, who were good at their craft in combat and were related to the glory and success in warfare. (3) The ability to be a founding father: The idea that they influenced the country's legacy and his paternalistic treatment of its subjects (4) Being someone from among the ordinary people. Power is measured not from being originated from a special blessing from the clergy nor because of a royal bloodline, but because of his merits.

Another Key point was how the Napoleon Propaganda was built. He mentions first, while he had part of his success should be attributed to a successful manipulation of his public image and propaganda. Propaganda wouldn't be sufficient without his actual merit. Part of the propaganda and the emphasis of his attributions gets amplified because of the growing sentiment of French Nationalistic Imperialism, as denoted in our class readings assignments from March 18-22: A World of Empires lecture - Jules Ferry on the Civilizing Mission: "Jules Ferry on French Colonial Expansion, 1884" which denotes the growing sentiment such as the one denoted by the Prime Minister of French, where in his note, he excuses the imperialistic policies taken as "a Duty as men of higher race... to civilize the inferior race.. with sincerity of this superior civilizing duty". Napoleon's genius is further augmented as it aligns with the agenda of Imperialistic France. Napoleon is also at the same time embodiment of the French Revolution, where merit on the battlefield was superior to any royal or clergy sponsorship. Napoleon excelled at his propaganda campaign because he was aligned with the values of the revolution and public sentiment as well as his successful reproduction and distribution of his image in household images and public paintings together with the stories being told about his approachability with his men at warfare and the willingness to "get dirty" compared to those at the nobility. For example, Bell related: how Napoleon was once seen loading and firing his army cannons amid the battlefield, which ended up with his soldiers jokingly referring to him as "The Little Corporal."

I couldn't help myself from noticing how Napoleon's features and success stories run almost parallel stories found both in today's modern world and other past and present stories media. For example in Today world's we can see the cult of personalities in the world of business that appears in celebrity CEOs such as Elon Musk [^1]. who aligns with the capitalist meritocratic ideal of the American Dream built on the back of hard work. He gained his fanbase (including myself in the past) from videos showcasing his work ethic, and not giving up attitude. For example, there are videos circulating about how he started his companies by working till night and sleeping in the office or Factory floors [^2]. I am someone who values the engineering work and craft of the development of the product rather than the misleading marketing nonsense that companies seem to go for. Therefore, some years ago, I was also a fan of him when I was shown a video of a stuttering CEO while making a presentation. My cousin described him as "This is what an engineer who focuses on product rather than marketing and PR nonsense looks like". Elon Musk at that time appealed to the 4 supporting features of a charismatic leader: as he is (was at least) I remember hearing how he was also considered one of the sexiest CEOs (appealing sexual object). And his success in modern warfare (business). And the feeling of "he is also one of us, workers instead of only speaking type." Of course compared to now, many of those features seem to be breaking down, and his cult following deteriorating. I also remember seeing this idealized men of the masses ideal being portrayed in many movies such as "The King" where a scene, shows the king offering to fight for his man (paternalistic ideal) and also dirtying himself in the combat with him men[^3] 

The pattern of the Cult of Glory is repeated in folklore and history, as well as today as also highlighted at the heights of Imperialism. The ideal features of the Cult of Glory Leader exploits our survival instincts to follow a capable leader, aligned with our beliefs, and will also protect us in a world of chaos. With this report and analysis, I hope to provide a reflection point to break down the steps into crafting a Cult of Glory Leader.

[1] The Cult of Elon Musk: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LAU1l7iEpoU&ab_channel=jaubrey

[2] Why Elon Musk Slept on The Factory Floor for Years?: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T55nYjcemBU&ab_channel=MuskVision

[3] The King Scene: King Henry refuses to surrender of Prince of France https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MN-sh_glfhc&ab_channel=fuckinggoodmovies