---
title: January 2024
---

### 05 - Fri

I cant believe it, I am back.

- A lot of stuff happened. What I am hopping to do is to take the largest share of advantage from the point I am in right now. And focus to learn and improve on the areas that appear to most significantly tbe improving upon my career. I gonna also make sure that the Mastery system is or will be also improved to the point I can confintly run the practce problems. 


### 5.todo

- [x] 5.1 Improving Mastery System.
- [x] 5.2 Identifying the co-beneffited areas 
- [x] 5.3 Identifying what are the procedures to follow for the mastery of each item.
- [x] 5.4 How about the long term web design objectives?
- [ ] 5.5 Working on designing the Jupyter Notebook series practice




### 5.2 Identifying the co-beneffited areas

- [ ] What are the areas that are good for my career and perphaps might appear on the future current job description or dailies?
- [ ] Rank in which order to run the probabilities of them.



- [ ] 1. Managing a Team
- [ ] 2. AWS 
- [ ] 3. Ai 
  - [ ] 3.1. Machine Learning for predicting patterns.
  - [ ] 3.2 Language Processing.
- [ ] 4. Data Structures and Algorithms.
- [ ] 5. Designing Systems and Architecture Design
  - [ ] 5.1 Database Design
  - [ ] 5.2 System Design
  - [ ] 5.3 AWS Architecture Design
- [ ] 6. TDD
  - [ ] Test Kit Best practices.
- [ ] 7. Recognition patterns


### 5.1 Improving the Mastery System

- [ ] Adding default disabled flags for math and non terminology problems.
- [ ] So now it will require the `--all` flag if the dsa problem is to be desired. This is so that the optimiazation

- This fixture requires for the flags

```js

if (flags.all) {
    console.log("all")
    const problem_response = await dsaTrainer.showMenuOfProblems();
    updateAlgorithmPerformance(problem_response);
} else {
    const problem_response = await dsaTrainer.showRecommendedProblems();
    updateAlgorithmPerformance(problem_response);
}


```


### 5.3 Identifying what are the procedures to follow for the mastery of each item.

**Practices Related Areas**

*Here are areas that require the intended practice on the daily, such as running algorithms and practicing AI Modeling using some data Science Library.*


**Best Practices Knowledge Areas**

*Here is a matter of practicign with the daily commits. *

- I am in fact considering removing data structures practices from the random problems because they bring those problems of slowering work.
- And also deleting the math problems as they dont belong to the opportunity for daily practice. Most of them are just basic computing does it make sense to have them there? The only reasonable ones are the ones running with discrete math inside of them. (Including probability?)
- As for Data Strucutre + Practice problems what I am hoping to have is that whenever you are coming back in train or in the train your practice should focus on the areas closer to the requried "practice areas": this can be done by having the dsa practice challange being requested at the end of the day, and either practice for ANKI or for CSE or for CSJ: Continues Sequence Jupyter where you have distinct problems for data Jupyter Notebooks AI related problems.


**Mantainanace Areas**



**Things to be practiced at home**

- Well then at home you shall do tutorials. 
- .net projects
- Freelance projects etc.
- Building Portfolio Projects




### 5.4 How about the long term web design objectives?


They shall contain the following since some skills are better shown with some proofs

For Abstract skills such as AI and AWS they shall be shown throgh certificates:

- AWS Certificte: EMR + redshift + Snowflake
- Google Tensorflow Certificate
- Azure Certificate

While others shall be show with the actual projects for them:

- .net
- Spring

Those two are actually the largest one bothering me.

Kind of nonsenseless. 


Here how the other habits shall be split for 



#### Habits that should be done on the daily basis 


**Practice English on the daily basis**

This can be broken down on the following habits:

- Do a research Short with 30 minutes and 5 minutes presentation for random topics


**Applying everyday for programs**

- This gets harder as you might have to be away of work to interview.
- This can be done while doing other stuff like going to gyb

**Working out everyday**

- This can be done by watching series while working out. As far as I am aware is a very effective method.


### Todays and this weekends plan of actions:

- Continue working on ALL projects this includes (portfolio, and Prometheus and Freelance Sister)

These should be the habits to be added:

- Work
- Have 1 series + trainning
- Have 2 blocks of Projects



**Ideally at work**

- if there is work to do, complete your work.
- Otherwise take advantage to ontinue improving your personal tools. (Never do tutorials as it looks bad)
- If no motivation whatsoever follow cses and jses routines.



### 5.5 Working on designing the Jupyter Notebook series practice

- It opens and now copies the file direction to the clipboard, but what we want from it is to copy it's content to a raw file that should be used as temp for solving it.

1. Copy raw file

Lets check how this is done:

```js
 populate_problem = true,
populate_with_cloze_filepath = "", base = "" } = {}) {
if (populate_problem) {

    if (populate_with_cloze_filepath != "") {

        this.problems_manager.populateTemplate({ file_path: populate_with_cloze_filepath }, { base: base });
    } else {

        this.problems_manager.populateTemplate(problem);

    }
}
```

```js

    if (base != "") {
        return this.copyFileToTemp(problem.file_path, { base: base });
    }
    this.copyFileToTemp(problem.file_path);

```

This is what we want to copy from:


```js title="dsa-cli/problems-manager.js"


/**
 * Copies the file from problem_file_path to the temp_problem_filepath.
 * @param {str} problem_file_path The path to the file to copy
 * @param {str} base The path to the file to copy from e.g. base_code'
 */
copyFileToTemp(problem_file_path, { base = "./base_code/" } = {}) {
    try {
        // console.log("Copying file from", problem_file_path, "to", this.temp_problem_filepath)
        const absolute_problem_file_path = getDirAbsoluteUri(problem_file_path, base);
        const absolute_temp_file_path = getDirAbsoluteUri(this.temp_problem_filepath, "./");


        // console.log("Opening file: " + absolute_problem_file_path, "from source,", problem_file_path);
        fs.readFile(absolute_problem_file_path, 'utf8', function (err, data) {
            if (err) {

                console.log(err)
                return false
            }

            fs.writeFile(absolute_temp_file_path, data, 'utf8', function (err) {
                if (err) {
                    console.log(err)
                    return false
                };

            });
        });
        return true;
    } catch (err) {
        console.error(err);
        return false;

    }
}

```

You read the file and then you write it to make it work just fine.


















