---
title: February 2024
---

## 9 Friday

### 9.todo 

- [x] 9.1 Gathering some thoughts about the Hackathon
- [ ] 9.2 Finishing the feat based Radar graph. 
- [ ] 9.3 Start working on Decks Sharing Systme
- [ ] 9.4 Plan a plan for learning algorihtms better
- [ ] 9.5 Draft a plan for social at hack
- [ ] 9.6 Build the Lang Chain system.
- [ ] 9.7 Build Simple React Native Expo Template
- [ ] 9.8 Rough development using `Angular` for Maid-CLI's Project 
- [ ] 9.9 Explore Sentiment Analysis
- [ ] 9.10 Prepare everthing for Ferrnando to test your application.




### 9.1 Gathering some thoughts about the Hackathon

What I am thinking here, the likehood of the best tool to develop here would be something that were to combine the following stack

- Langchain: For LLM features.
- React Native: I need it on my portfolio to build things.
- Some random backend is good enough.

- You dont need to setup user whatever but would definitevely be a plus.


**Planning Socially Speaking**

- This shouldnt take priority over meeting people. You might want to print your resume and get to get pass as one of the students there. The idea is to strike friendly converations meet talented people. Probably aim to keep contact with them.
What would make people like you?

- Not being a jerk/sending memes. being friendly and hear people out
- Also try to optimize for this: Skilled People + People likelier to invite you.
  - If they looking for internship you can ask if you want them you to ask your manager.
  - Look for asians and seniors that they share the same interests as you. If they come from some shty school that might even be better.
- Also in the end try to go though others projects and learn more about them. 
- Sticking and working the project throughky
- Staying the night for the Hackathon
- Help over the design of the project.
- Being positive and attempt to stick out with other's ideas. (helping talented people buidl the ideas)
- Probably try to find male friends to hang out with.
- Ask for linkedings. Ask if anyone looking for internships you can ask your manager. Say is paying double around $30 which makes sesnse sicne you are being paid double for part-time.
- Try to connect with that bc guy, who seems very promising in participation + algorithms.

**Review the project stack.**



### 9.2 Finishing the feat based Radar graph.


- For this which are the features I am asking for?
  - I would be asking, for `pro` `math` `term`?

But honestly I think I stopped tracking term and math. So the focus should be instead of: `pro` `feat` and perhaps `algo` and `algo_w` ?

`pro` `algo_w` `feat`


And the idea is to have them weekly since they have a miss feature, that should also be used as the cap for the weeks requirements.

- Lets try first in hardcoded way. Never mind beacuse they are propportional, they should work while we support having. 
- [x] Lets actually care for commits and cards regardlesss.
- [x] Make the performance increase b the typen
- [ ] Ensure that the database is fetching from the current year.

Which api is being requested?

- 












